README.md, before:

# 🌱 OSCE - Open Source Controlled Environments

<div align="center">

![OSCE Logo](https://img.shields.io/badge/OSCE-4.0-green?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-yellow?style=for-the-badge)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production--Ready-success?style=for-the-badge)

**The WordPress of IoT for Controlled Environment Agriculture**

[Installation](#-quick-start) • [Features](#-features) • [Documentation](#-documentation) • [Community](#-community) • [Contributing](#-contributing)

</div>

---

## 🚀 Transform Your Growing Operation in 5 Minutes

OSCE is a production-ready, modular platform that makes advanced Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA) accessible to everyone—from hobbyists to commercial operations. Like WordPress revolutionized websites, OSCE revolutionizes IoT for agriculture.

### ✨ Why OSCE?

| Traditional IoT | OSCE Platform |
|-----------------|---------------|
| Days to setup | **5 minutes** to operational |
| Vendor lock-in | **100% open source** |
| Limited hardware support | **Universal hardware** compatibility |
| Complex programming | **Natural language** automation |
| Isolated systems | **Federated network** ready |
| Manual monitoring | **AI-powered** optimization |

## 🎯 Quick Start

```bash
# One-line installation (Linux/MacOS)
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/main/install.sh | bash

# Your system is now running at https://localhost:8080
```

**First-time setup? See our [5-minute quickstart guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)**

## 🌟 Features

### 🔧 Core Capabilities

- **🔌 Universal Hardware Support**
  - Raspberry Pi, ESP32, Arduino, and more
  - Auto-discovery of sensors and actuators
  - Hot-swappable components

- **🤖 AI-Powered Automation**
  - Natural language rule creation
  - Predictive maintenance
  - Growth optimization ML models

- **🔐 Enterprise Security**
  - Zero-trust architecture
  - Blockchain audit trails
  - Quantum-ready encryption

- **📊 Comprehensive Monitoring**
  - Real-time dashboards
  - Automated compliance reporting
  - Mobile app support

- **🌐 Federation & Scaling**
  - Multi-site management
  - Automatic failover
  - Global collaboration network

- **🧠 Unified Hive Mind**
  - Frequency-domain agent coordination via FFT
  - Bridges digital decisions with physical actions
  - Demonstration: `osce-hivemind-fft.py`

### 🎮 Interface Options

1. **Web Dashboard** - Beautiful, responsive interface
2. **Mobile Apps** - iOS/Android (coming soon)
3. **API** - RESTful and GraphQL
4. **CLI** - Full command-line control
5. **Voice Control** - Alexa/Google Home integration

## 📚 Documentation

### For Different Users

- **👨‍🌾 Growers**: Start with [AGENTS.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Your complete operational guide
- **💻 Developers**: See [DEVELOPMENT.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Architecture and plugin development
- **🏢 IT Admins**: Check [DEPLOYMENT.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Enterprise deployment guide
- **🤖 AI Developers**: Read [AI_INTEGRATION.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Building AI copilots

### Quick Links

- [Hardware Compatibility List](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Plugin Development Guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Security Best Practices](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Troubleshooting Guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)

## 🏗️ Architecture

OSCE introduces revolutionary concepts to IoT:

1. **IoT Abstract Resource Model (IARM)** - Write once, run on any hardware
2. **Zero-Trust IoT Security Model (ZISM)** - Enterprise security for all
3. **Federated Learning Network** - Shared intelligence, private data
4. **Unified Hive Mind (UHM)** - Frequency-based agent orchestration bridging digital decisions with real actions

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Interface Layer                  │
│         Web Dashboard │ Mobile │ API │ Voice            │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                    Application Layer                     │
│     Environment Manager │ Plugin System │ AI Engine     │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│              Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)            │
│        Universal drivers for any IoT hardware           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                    Hardware Layer                        │
│     Raspberry Pi │ ESP32 │ Arduino │ Industrial PLC     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Join our thriving community of growers, developers, and innovators:

- **📣 Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions)
- **💬 Discord**: [Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/osce)
- **📧 Newsletter**: [Subscribe for updates](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/newsletter)
- **🎥 YouTube**: [Video Tutorials](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/tutorials)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Minimum Requirements

- **Hardware**: Raspberry Pi 3+ or equivalent (2GB RAM, 10GB storage)
- **Software**: Docker, Docker Compose
- **Network**: Internet connection for initial setup

### Installation Options

#### Option 1: Quick Install (Recommended)
```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/main/install.sh | bash
```

#### Option 2: Manual Installation
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments.git
cd OpenSourceControlledEnvironments
./install.sh --interactive
```

#### Option 3: Docker Only
```bash
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 hydrofarmer/osce:latest
```

## 🧪 Example: Your First Automation

```python
# Add a temperature sensor
await env.add_sensor("greenhouse_temp", type="DHT22", pin=4)

# Create a natural language rule
env.add_rule("if greenhouse_temp > 28°C then turn exhaust_fan on")

# That's it! No complex programming required
```

## 🧠 Hive Mind Demonstration

Experience multi-agent coordination with our FFT-based hive mind:

```bash
python osce-hivemind-fft.py
```

## 🔌 Plugin Ecosystem

Extend OSCE with our growing plugin marketplace:

- **🌤️ Weather Integration** - Proactive climate control
- **📸 AI Plant Health** - Disease detection via camera
- **💹 Market Prices** - Optimize growing based on demand
- **🔋 Solar Management** - Integrate renewable energy
- **📱 Notifications** - SMS, Email, Slack, Teams

[Browse all plugins →](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/plugins)

## 🛠️ Development

### Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments.git
cd OpenSourceControlledEnvironments

# Setup development environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest

# Start development server
python -m osce.main --dev
```

### Creating a Plugin

```python
# my_plugin/plugin.yaml
id: my-awesome-plugin
name: My Awesome Plugin
version: 1.0.0
author: Your Name

# my_plugin/main.py
class Plugin:
    def __init__(self, osce):
        self.osce = osce
        
    async def activate(self):
        # Your plugin logic here
        self.osce.log("My plugin is active!")
```

## 📊 Performance

Benchmarked on Raspberry Pi 4 (4GB):

- **Startup Time**: < 30 seconds
- **Sensor Response**: < 100ms
- **Rule Execution**: < 50ms
- **Concurrent Devices**: 100+
- **Data Points/Day**: 1M+

## 🔒 Security

OSCE takes security seriously:

- ✅ Regular security audits
- ✅ Automated vulnerability scanning
- ✅ Responsible disclosure program
- ✅ End-to-end encryption option
- ✅ GDPR/CCPA compliant

Report security issues to: security@osce.io

## 🤲 Contributing

We love contributions! See our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Ways to Contribute

1. **🐛 Report Bugs**: [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/issues)
2. **💡 Suggest Features**: [Feature Requests](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions/categories/ideas)
3. **📖 Improve Docs**: Always appreciated!
4. **🔧 Submit PRs**: Fork, code, test, PR
5. **🌍 Translate**: Help us go global
6. **📹 Create Tutorials**: Share your knowledge

## 📄 License

OSCE is open source under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Use it freely in personal and commercial projects.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Built with ❤️ by the OSCE Community

Special thanks to:
- All our contributors and testers
- The open-source projects we build upon
- Growers worldwide sharing their knowledge

---

<div align="center">

**🌱 Growing the future, together 🌱**

[Website](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) • [Documentation](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki) • [Community](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions) • [Donate](https://github.com/sponsors/HydroFarmerJason)

</div>

Commit message:

docs: reference new example scripts

README.md, after:

# 🌱 OSCE - Open Source Controlled Environments

<div align="center">

![OSCE Logo](https://img.shields.io/badge/OSCE-4.0-green?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11+-yellow?style=for-the-badge)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production--Ready-success?style=for-the-badge)

**The WordPress of IoT for Controlled Environment Agriculture**

[Installation](#-quick-start) • [Features](#-features) • [Documentation](#-documentation) • [Community](#-community) • [Contributing](#-contributing)

</div>

---

## 🚀 Transform Your Growing Operation in 5 Minutes

OSCE is a production-ready, modular platform that makes advanced Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA) accessible to everyone—from hobbyists to commercial operations. Like WordPress revolutionized websites, OSCE revolutionizes IoT for agriculture.

### ✨ Why OSCE?

| Traditional IoT | OSCE Platform |
|-----------------|---------------|
| Days to setup | **5 minutes** to operational |
| Vendor lock-in | **100% open source** |
| Limited hardware support | **Universal hardware** compatibility |
| Complex programming | **Natural language** automation |
| Isolated systems | **Federated network** ready |
| Manual monitoring | **AI-powered** optimization |

## 🎯 Quick Start

```bash
# One-line installation (Linux/MacOS)
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/main/install.sh | bash

# Your system is now running at https://localhost:8080
```

**First-time setup? See our [5-minute quickstart guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)**

## 🌟 Features

### 🔧 Core Capabilities

- **🔌 Universal Hardware Support**
  - Raspberry Pi, ESP32, Arduino, and more
  - Auto-discovery of sensors and actuators
  - Hot-swappable components

- **🤖 AI-Powered Automation**
  - Natural language rule creation
  - Predictive maintenance
  - Growth optimization ML models

- **🔐 Enterprise Security**
  - Zero-trust architecture
  - Blockchain audit trails
  - Quantum-ready encryption

- **📊 Comprehensive Monitoring**
  - Real-time dashboards
  - Automated compliance reporting
  - Mobile app support

- **🌐 Federation & Scaling**
  - Multi-site management
  - Automatic failover
  - Global collaboration network

- **🧠 Unified Hive Mind**
  - Frequency-domain agent coordination via FFT
  - Bridges digital decisions with physical actions
  - Demonstration: `osce-hivemind-fft.py`

### 🎮 Interface Options

1. **Web Dashboard** - Beautiful, responsive interface
2. **Mobile Apps** - iOS/Android (coming soon)
3. **API** - RESTful and GraphQL
4. **CLI** - Full command-line control
5. **Voice Control** - Alexa/Google Home integration

## 📚 Documentation

### For Different Users

- **👨‍🌾 Growers**: Start with [AGENTS.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Your complete operational guide
- **💻 Developers**: See [DEVELOPMENT.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Architecture and plugin development
- **🏢 IT Admins**: Check [DEPLOYMENT.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Enterprise deployment guide
- **🤖 AI Developers**: Read [AI_INTEGRATION.md](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) - Building AI copilots

### Quick Links

- [Hardware Compatibility List](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Plugin Development Guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Security Best Practices](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)
- [Troubleshooting Guide](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments)

## 🏗️ Architecture

OSCE introduces revolutionary concepts to IoT:

1. **IoT Abstract Resource Model (IARM)** - Write once, run on any hardware
2. **Zero-Trust IoT Security Model (ZISM)** - Enterprise security for all
3. **Federated Learning Network** - Shared intelligence, private data
4. **Unified Hive Mind (UHM)** - Frequency-based agent orchestration bridging digital decisions with real actions

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Interface Layer                  │
│         Web Dashboard │ Mobile │ API │ Voice            │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                    Application Layer                     │
│     Environment Manager │ Plugin System │ AI Engine     │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│              Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)            │
│        Universal drivers for any IoT hardware           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                    Hardware Layer                        │
│     Raspberry Pi │ ESP32 │ Arduino │ Industrial PLC     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Join our thriving community of growers, developers, and innovators:

- **📣 Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions)
- **💬 Discord**: [Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/osce)
- **📧 Newsletter**: [Subscribe for updates](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/newsletter)
- **🎥 YouTube**: [Video Tutorials](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/tutorials)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Minimum Requirements

- **Hardware**: Raspberry Pi 3+ or equivalent (2GB RAM, 10GB storage)
- **Software**: Docker, Docker Compose
- **Network**: Internet connection for initial setup

### Installation Options

#### Option 1: Quick Install (Recommended)
```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/main/install.sh | bash
```

#### Option 2: Manual Installation
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments.git
cd OpenSourceControlledEnvironments
./install.sh --interactive
```

#### Option 3: Docker Only
```bash
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 hydrofarmer/osce:latest
```

## 🧪 Example: Your First Automation

```python
# Add a temperature sensor
await env.add_sensor("greenhouse_temp", type="DHT22", pin=4)

# Create a natural language rule
env.add_rule("if greenhouse_temp > 28°C then turn exhaust_fan on")

# That's it! No complex programming required
```

## 🧠 Hive Mind Demonstration

Experience multi-agent coordination with our FFT-based hive mind:

```bash
python osce-hivemind-fft.py
```

## 📂 Example Scripts

Explore advanced functionality using the scripts in the repository root:

- `osce_unified_setup.py` – Production-ready setup leveraging the IoT Abstract Resource Model.
- `osce_hal_enhanced.py` – Enhanced hardware abstraction layer with monitoring and security.
- `osce_complete_example.py` – Comprehensive demonstration of a multi-site deployment.

Run any script with `python <script>` to see it in action.

## 🔌 Plugin Ecosystem

Extend OSCE with our growing plugin marketplace:

- **🌤️ Weather Integration** - Proactive climate control
- **📸 AI Plant Health** - Disease detection via camera
- **💹 Market Prices** - Optimize growing based on demand
- **🔋 Solar Management** - Integrate renewable energy
- **📱 Notifications** - SMS, Email, Slack, Teams

[Browse all plugins →](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki/plugins)

## 🛠️ Development

### Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments.git
cd OpenSourceControlledEnvironments

# Setup development environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest

# Start development server
python -m osce.main --dev
```

### Creating a Plugin

```python
# my_plugin/plugin.yaml
id: my-awesome-plugin
name: My Awesome Plugin
version: 1.0.0
author: Your Name

# my_plugin/main.py
class Plugin:
    def __init__(self, osce):
        self.osce = osce
        
    async def activate(self):
        # Your plugin logic here
        self.osce.log("My plugin is active!")
```

## 📊 Performance

Benchmarked on Raspberry Pi 4 (4GB):

- **Startup Time**: < 30 seconds
- **Sensor Response**: < 100ms
- **Rule Execution**: < 50ms
- **Concurrent Devices**: 100+
- **Data Points/Day**: 1M+

## 🔒 Security

OSCE takes security seriously:

- ✅ Regular security audits
- ✅ Automated vulnerability scanning
- ✅ Responsible disclosure program
- ✅ End-to-end encryption option
- ✅ GDPR/CCPA compliant

Report security issues to: security@osce.io

## 🤲 Contributing

We love contributions! See our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Ways to Contribute

1. **🐛 Report Bugs**: [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/issues)
2. **💡 Suggest Features**: [Feature Requests](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions/categories/ideas)
3. **📖 Improve Docs**: Always appreciated!
4. **🔧 Submit PRs**: Fork, code, test, PR
5. **🌍 Translate**: Help us go global
6. **📹 Create Tutorials**: Share your knowledge

## 📄 License

OSCE is open source under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Use it freely in personal and commercial projects.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Built with ❤️ by the OSCE Community

Special thanks to:
- All our contributors and testers
- The open-source projects we build upon
- Growers worldwide sharing their knowledge

---

<div align="center">

**🌱 Growing the future, together 🌱**

[Website](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments) • [Documentation](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/wiki) • [Community](https://github.com/HydroFarmerJason/OpenSourceControlledEnvironments/discussions) • [Donate](https://github.com/sponsors/HydroFarmerJason)

</div>
